# DreamFactory Services Platform&trade; Release/Change Log

## v1.9.3 (Released 2015-06-01)

### Fixes
* Fixed env variable names in OpenShift db config.

## v1.9.2 (Released 2015-04-29)

### New!
* Admin console supports live chat with DreamFactory support.
* Chat can be enabled or disabled in config/common.config.php.
* New welcome page for admin console with intro movie and help links.

### Fixes
* Fixed admin console problem with SMTP services not being saved properly.

## v1.9.1 (Released 2015-03-12)

### New!
* Using new DreamFactory images.
* Add support for more CURL options for inline requests in scripting.
* Add support for MongoDB object notation in filters.

### Fixes
* Fixed several issues for new admin application including 
  * MongoDB SSL designation
  * Downloads and Packaging bug fixes
  * Service selection drop down correction.
  * Role assignment bug fixes.
  * Schema editing fixes, particularly reference table assignment.
* Fixed stored procedures for Oracle database service.
* Fixed service request for components API to avoid hit on remote web services.
* Added Basic Auth header to pass through check on remote web services.
* Fix processing of ticket on user/session API.

## v1.9.0 (Released 2015-01-21)

## NOTE: Schema update required if upgrading from prior versions

### New!
* Push notification support via AWS SNS configured as a service.
* Date-Time formatting options for all SQL DB services via config (see config/common.config.php)
  * By default, no formatting is done. After changing settings, clear platform cache.
  * Configured format settings are included in /rest/system/config call for client use.
* Basic HTTP Authentication now supported per API call, using URL (i.e. https://user:password@server) or standard Basic Authentication header.
* Server Side Scripting now supports passing URL parameters on external or API calls.
* Added SSL connection configuration abilities to MongoDB services (driver support required).
* Add capability to send expressions for field values on SQL DB Services.
* Role Service Access configuration now allows for separate permissions for API usage and scripting usage.

### Fixes
* IBM DB2 fix to retrieve schemas not generated by DDL commands directly.
* SQL DB service related record updates now handles non-autoincremented primary keys.
* Fix for SQL DB related data queries where one side of junction is null.
* Remote Web Service bug fixes
  * now return the non-2xx HTTP status codes from the remote call to the client
  * now allow service configuration to allow client-set headers to pass through to remote call.
* Role permission assignments/checking now uses bitmasks instead of verb comparisons.
* Allow region selection on AWS S3 services, previously defaulted to us-east-1, with no admin UI control.
* Correct usage/checking of HTTP verbs that are aliased by services during permission checks.
* Fixed server-side lookup issues.
* Fix for sticky product support page, attempt once and done.
* Routing now allows all acceptable characters in service and resource URL parts.
* Admin app package menu SQL DB schema selection fixed.

## v1.8.2 (Released 2014-11-17)

### New!
* Added SQL DB support for IBM DB2.
* Add configuration for OpenShift support.

### Fixes
* Scripting Events bug fixes
  * non-pre/post_process events for Remote SQL DB services
  * cache clearing and rebuilding on creating new or updating existing script
* CORS config bug fix for "enable" checkbox and caching issue
* Email Service SMTP and command configuration fix for UI and server-side.
* Data Manager field toggle fix for Google Chrome

## v1.8.1 (Released 2014-11-04)

### New!
* Added stored procedure support for Oracle and PostgreSQL.
* Added support for stored functions (`_func` resource) across all supported SQL DB services.
* Caching procedure and function names for speed, refresh option in GET requests to clear
* Support for remote web service caching, UI changes in Admin Services config panel.

### Fixes
* Fixes and improvements for remote login providers
  * Default remote login to false in config
  * Fix link for remote login to go to correct provider.
  * Fixed where remote providers were being put in the "allow_remote_login" key of the config array
  * Corrected icon name for remote login providers to be the "provider_name" field vs. the "api_name".
* Updated maintenance and unavailable pages, Cleaned up dumper utility and 404 error page
* Support parenthesis and comma in API requests
* Properly set dsp_name for hosted/non-hosted DSPs
* Fixing timing problem with reference fields
* Don't attempt retrieval of related records when no related field value is present.
* Return all fields on app import
* Fix app delete including storage when no return fields given, also app creation when URL is supplied
* Refactor user service resources to use a base class where payload is handled uniformly
* Added event triggers for non-GET, non-pre/post events on user resources.
* Changed default cache path to be in subdir of temp instead of root. 
* Fixed error when nothing cached for open registration.
* Cleaned up config generation. DataFormatter::flattenArray() method added.
* Clear activation flag when there is no database
* New config "paths" and "timestamp_format" plus swagger doc
* Check with kisma only if class available.
* Update to state names to match new swagger content


## v1.8.0+ - lib-php-common-platform and yii libraries only (Released 2014-10-16)

* Fix SQL DB Services stored procedure calls to support multiple datasets being returned (i.e. multiple select statements).
* Fix view support for SQL DB Services.
* Fix Yii database schema caching issues and general speed improvements.


## v1.8.0 (Released 2014-10-06)

### New!
* Oracle Database support via the SQL DB Service (requires php_oci driver).
* Added "include()" function in global scope of Server-side Scripting to allow inclusion of other javascript libraries/files.
* Server-side scripting now allows access via non-admins and guest roles.
* Added new method Platform::getSystemTimestamp() to provide a consistent, and user-specifiable, date-time format for datetime fields in MySQL. This is a problem with pre-MySQL v5.6.4 created databases migrating to MySQL v5.6.4+. Addresses issue #34.
* Added support for "double" in schema simplified types ("float" now is single precision and "double" is double precision).

### Fixes
* Many Schema Manager improvements and bug fixes dealing with updating schema via database API.
* Several usability issues fixed in Data Manager in Admin Panel.
* File services role service access failure to block retrieval of folders fixed.
* DB service table caching improved, faster and more accurate updates of table schema and relationships.
* Database validations improvements
* App import with services and database schema issues fixed.
* Added missing tunneling headers to CORS Allowed Headers response.
* Fixed CORS response so that '*' is returned when '*' is configured for allowed hosts in Allowed-Origin in CORS response.
* Fix Remote Web Service to allow parameters in the base URL provisioned and allow for '[]' array notation in URL parameters from client calls.
* Fix issues using Server-side Lookups when in guest role or via password reset scenarios.
* Fix error notification on Admin Panel and Launchpad so they don't disappear quickly.
* Removal of the 'Upgrade' button and supporting code. The DSP still detects new available loads, but will direct the user to wiki instructions for upgrading instead of directly upgrading, due to continuing platform complexities.


## v1.7.8 (Released 2014-09-02)

### Fixes
* inadvertent clearing of password from admin panel bug fixed.
* All/* role service access bug
* DB service cache refresh option fixed.

### New!
* Custom scripts available from the Admin panel scripting interface and the REST API.

## v1.7.7 (Released 2014-08-27)

### Fixes
* SQL DB Schema bug fixes
* Swagger output, model definitions bug fixes
* Updated config files for [IBM Bluemix](http://www.bluemix.net/) and [Pivotal](http://www.pivotal.io) PaaS solutions

## v1.7.6 (Released 2014-08-15)

### New!
* SQL DB services now support stored procedures, access via the `<service_name>/_proc` resource. In this version only MySQL and SQL Server connections support stored procedures.
* SQL DB Schema service functionality has been rolled into the SQL DB service, access via the `<service_name>/_schema` resource. The SQL DB Schema service type for existing configurations) is still operational for this release, but is deemed deprecated.
* New system resource `environment` containing information about the system running the DSP
 * Pull via REST: `/rest/system/environment`
* Many platform neutrality enhancements
 * Added config files for [IBM Bluemix](http://www.bluemix.net/) and [Pivotal](http://www.pivotal.io) PaaS solutions

## v1.6.10 (Released 2014-06-24)

### New!
* Support for stored procedures in role service access
* Consolidation of all platform caches down to a single cache stored in /storage/.private/app.store
* Added new optional [memcached](http://memcached.org/) support. If memcached is detected, and running, it will be used for the platform cache instead of the file system.
 * Requires `memcached` and PHP `memcached` extension: `$ sudo apt-get install memcached php5-memcached`
* Added `/web/config` route for `phpinfo()` output to admin.  
* Removed `dsp.use_memcached` flag and servers from composer.json.
* `memcache/d` has own config file now (see `/config/memcached.config.php-dist`).  
* Launchpad refactorings  
* config for app store
* Update Admin Data
 * Fix table row btn bar from breaking
 * Add related child system table parse for service.
 * Update Admin Config and AppGroups. Add bottom bar UI btns
* Cleaned up debug on/off in index.php.
* web/admin/js/app.js: added type ids for schema
* Added pre- and post-process event support for `schema` and `file` services 

### Fixes
* Pull Common library DataFormat class to this library as DataFormatter and fix csv file ending detection. Update references.

## v1.6.0 (Released 2014-06-20)

### New!
* Server Side Lookups changed so private can only be used by service configuration, and non-private for other things like filtering
* Server Side Lookups can now be used for database filter parameter replacement.
* Server Side Lookups can now be used for database record field creation and modification.
* Role's Service and System Accesses now use REST verb selection instead of access string.
* Server Side Scripting gets major overhaul and adds detailed request and response handling and call outs to REST API and external HTTP calls.
* Major Swagger update for db services to expose the various *ByFilter and *ByIds options.

### Fixes, Updates, and Upgrades
* Changed Swagger output to be locked down by valid application api_name only, no session required because of sdk usage.
* App import bug fix, also removing default description from swagger service
* Fix for AWS container creation
* Schema service changes to support PUT properly, deletes any fields not in posted data.
* Additional lookup usage in NoSQL DB cases
* Improvements for CouchDb view support
* Improvements for Postgresql support
* Cleanup use of MERGE vs. PATCH, allowing both.
* Changes to database services to remedy the xml translation and lack of record wrapper problem.
* Expose auto-login option to swagger for password reset and registration
* Remove pass by reference use

# Version 1.5.x

## v1.5.12 (Released 2014-05-09)

### Fixes
* System Config caching issue
* MongoDB support for MongoDB style filters in url filter parameter, and fix IN support
* Importing data records from app package
* User display name on registration
* Parameter include_count usage on system object queries has been corrected to be total count

## v1.5.9 (Released 2014-04-29)

### New!
* New DSP-level persistent storage mechanism interfaces with redis, xcache, memcache(d), etc.
* Added support for [libv8](https://github.com/v8) for server-side Javascript support
* Server-side event scripting with Javascript (Scripts live in /path/to/dsp/.private/scripts)
 * Server-side events are now live and being generated
  * Client event handler registration via new /rest/system/event API. See Live API for more info.
 * Server-side scripts now supported for REST events
  * Client event script registration via new /rest/system/script API. See Live API for more info.
* Lookup Key System enabling per-user permissions among other things.
* Local configuration file support (/path/to/dsp/.private/config)
* New configuration options for events and event logging control

### Fixes, Updates, and Upgrades
* Upgraded dependencies abound
* Session bug fix for validation with ticket
* Restored PEAR repository to composer.json because it is again required :(
* Myriad Javascript SDK and Admin application changes and fixes
* Returned data from GET ```/rest/system/config``` now includes more information about the environment
* **Azure** bug fixes and updates
* **DynamoDB** bug fixes
* **MongoDB** Full support added for rollback and continue options, batch error handling, and server-side filtering

#### Core Changes
* Standardized code formatting style based on a slightly modified PSR-1/2. One notable change is that we have dropped tabs for spaces.
* Leverage the [Symfony HttpFoundation](http://symfony.org) components in processing inbound requests in a drive towards framework neutrality.

#### Swagger Changes
* Event, Provider, ProviderUser, and Script resources added to Live API

#### Miscellaneous
* More code cleanup

## v1.4.x (Last Updated 2014-03-03)

### Major Foundational Changes
* Project Tree Reorganization
	* The [dsp-core](https://github.com/dreamfactorysoftware/dsp-core/) ```config/schema``` tree has been moved to this library.
	* The [Swagger](https://github.com/zircode/swagger-php/) storage area has been moved to a, now, user-editable location. Previously, it was hidden from hosted DSPs.
	* More functionality moved from launchpad/admin to back-end including login and password management
* Performance Improvements
	* Moved required PHPUnit dependencies ```"require-dev"``` section of ```composer.json``` so they can be more easily excluded in production.
	* Multiple performance improvements from consolidation/caching/removal of repetitive processes
	* Hosted DSPs will no longer check github for versioning

### New Features
* **New Data Formatter**: ```Components\AciTreeFormatter``` for data used in an [AciTree](http://plugins.jquery.com/aciTree/).
* **Guzzle Migration**: Begin migration from our [Curl](https://github.com/lucifurious/kisma/blob/master/src/Kisma/Core/Utility/Curl.php) class to [Guzzle](https://github.com/guzzle/guzzle/) .
* **Foundational Changes**: Laid groundwork for server-side events
* **Device Management**: New schema, models, and API added. Affects system and user services as well.
* **New Constants**:
	* [**LocalStorageTypes::SWAGGER_PATH**](https://github.com/dreamfactorysoftware/lib-php-common-platform/src/4ca33f4915ef2cacc340c1d74bf7ffc93e72fab9/Interfaces/PlatformStates.php?at=master) and [**LocalStorageTypes::TEMPLATE_PATH**](https://github.com/dreamfactorysoftware/lib-php-common-platform/src/4ca33f4915ef2cacc340c1d74bf7ffc93e72fab9/Interfaces/PlatformStates.php?at=master) and associated getters in [Platform](https://github.com/dreamfactorysoftware/lib-php-common-platform/src/4ca33f4915ef2cacc340c1d74bf7ffc93e72fab9/Utility/Platform.php?at=master)
	* [**PlatformStates::WELCOME_REQUIRED**](https://github.com/dreamfactorysoftware/lib-php-common-platform/src/4ca33f4915ef2cacc340c1d74bf7ffc93e72fab9/Interfaces/PlatformStates.php?at=master) platform state and modifying [SystemManager::initAdmin](https://github.com/dreamfactorysoftware/lib-php-common-platform/src/4ca33f4915ef2cacc340c1d74bf7ffc93e72fab9/Services/SystemManager.php?at=master) to be cleaner. NOTE: Requires new DSP version

### Bug Fixes
* Fix api login session bug
* Fix content type determination on file management
* Model corrections for swagger
* Better check for multi-row configs
* Fix some include problems, add search both directions to array_diff in Utility
* Override to setNativeFormat() to avoid invalid argument exception
* Fixes #57 by returning all columns from the model when constructing the response

## v1.3.3 (Released 2014-01-03)
* Installer and composer bug fixes

## v1.3.2 (Released 2013-12-31)
* Continued refactoring of Launchpad application into PHP core
* Login page now handled by PHP core
* Admin welcome screen and support registration added
* Portal service updated to allow for multiple portals to the same provider
* Bug fixes

## v1.2.3 (Released 2013-12-11)

### Major Foundational Changes
* Restructure of the project tree
	* The web/document root has been moved from `/web/public` to `/web`
	* `/web` now contains only publicly accessible code
	* All back-end server code has been moved from `/web/protected` to `/app`

* Management apps **app-launchpad** and **app-admin** have been merged into the core
	* Duplicate code removed
	* Libraries updated
	* Removed directory `/shared` and all associated links

* Back-end-served pages have been upgraded to use Bootstrap v3.x

### New Features
* User import/export available in the admin panel
* Support for CSV MIME type
* Import/export from/to file in JSON or XML
* Admin configuration support for default email template.
* Added remote database caching feature
* Application auto-start. Automatically loads an app when a session is active and the user has access
* System-wide maintenance notification added

### Bug Fixes
* Fix for SQL Server spatial/geography types. Return as strings and corrections for MS SQL connections
* Server will now send invite on user creation with **send_invite** url parameter, also supported on batch import.

### Miscellaneous
* `/app/controllers/RestController.php` refactored/simplified

## v1.1.3 (Released 2013-10-31)
* Portal and remote authentication support
* Bug fixes
* More to come

## v1.1.2
* Bug fixes

## v1.1.0

### Major Bug Fixes
* Add description to AppGroup and Role models
* Current user can no longer change their own role(s)
* Permission issues when saving new data
* All remaining open issues from version 1.0.6 fixed

### Major New Features
* Removed most DSP-specific code from Yii routing engine
* Most, if not all, resource access moved to a single class "ResourceStore"
* "/rest/system/constant" call to return system constants for list building
* Swagger annotations removed from code an placed into their own files
* Take "Accept" header into account for determination of content
* Config call now returns any available remote authentication providers
* Added new service to retrieve and update data from Salesforce
* New authentication provider service using the Oasys library
* Remote login services added to core and app-launchpad
* Added support for "global" authentication providers for enterprise customers
* Added ability to control CRUD access to system resources (User, App, etc.) through the Roles Admin Settings.

### Major Foundational Changes
* Most system types (i.e. service, storage, etc.) are now numeric instead of hard-coded strings
* Services now configured from /config/services.config.php instead of being hard-coded
* /src tree removed, replaced by new Composer libraries (lib-php-common-platform)
* Prep work for new "portal" service (future release)
* Prep work for moving to Bootstrap v3.x (future release)
* Prep work for new administration dashboard (future release)