<a name="top" />

[**HOME**](Home) > [**SNOWPLOW TECHNICAL DOCUMENTATION**](SnowPlow technical documentation) > [**Trackers**](trackers)

## Contents

- 1. [Overview](#overview)  
- 2. [General configuration and parameters](#general)
  - 2.1 [Initialization](#init)  
    - 2.1.1 [Required headers](#headers)
    - 2.1.2 [Initialize SnowPlowTracker](#snowplow-tracker-init)
  - 2.2 [Setting the endpoint](#endpoint)  
    - 2.2.1 [`initCf`](#initCf)  
    - 2.2.2 [`initUrl`](#initUrl)
  - 2.3 [Setting the user ID](#user-id)
    - 2.3.1 [`setUserId`](#setUserId)

<a name="overview" />
## 1. Overview

The [SnowPlow Arduino tracker](https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow-arduino-tracker) allows you to track SnowPlow events from an IP-connected [Arduino] [arduino] board.

The tracker should be straightforward to use if you are familiar with Arduino development; any prior experience with SnowPlow's [JavaScript tracker](Javascript-Tracker) or Google Analytics (which has a similar API) is helpful but not necessary.

Note that this tracker has access to a much more restricted set of SnowPlow events than other trackers.

[Back to top](#top)

<a name="general" />
## 2. General parameters

<a name="init" />
### 2.1 Initialization

You must add some initialization code to the top of your Arduino sketch, before your `setup()` function:

<a name="headers" />
### 2.1.1 Required headers

Make sure you have the following includes:

```c++
#include <SPI.h>
#include <Ethernet.h>
#include <SnowPlowTracker.h>
```

[Back to top](#top)

<a name="snowplow-tracker-init" />
### 2.1.2 Initialize SnowPlowTracker

After your includes but before your `setup()` function, initialize your `SnowPlowTracker` something like this:

```c++
// MAC address of this Arduino. Update with your shield's MAC address.
const byte mac[] = { 0x90, 0xA2, 0xDA, 0x00, 0xF8, 0xA0 };

// SnowPlow app name
const char *snowplowAppName = "my-arduino-project";

// SnowPlow Tracker
SnowPlowTracker snowplow(&Ethernet, mac, snowplowAppName);
```

Note that this initialization includes setting the application ID for your Arduino project, as well as your device's MAC address.

[Back to top](#top)

<a name="endpoint" />
### 2.2 Setting the endpoint

Endpoint refers to the location of your collector: you need to point your Arduino tracker to your collector endpoint, to ensure that data generated by your Arduino is logged by the collector.

If you are using a Cloudfront collector you can use [initCf](#initCf) to set the endpoint. If you are using any other collector (e.g. the Clojure collector, or SnowCannon), then you should use [initUrl](#initUrl).

<a name="initCf" />
#### 2.2.1 Setting a Cloudfront endpoint using `initCf()`

You can set the collector endpoint for the Cloudfront collector by adding to your `setup()` function:

```c++
snowplow.initCf("{{CLOUDFRONT-SUBDOMAIN}}");
```

So if your Cloudfront subdomain is `d3rkrsqld9gmqf`, you would include:

```c++
snowplow.initCf("d3rkrsqld9gmqf");
```

This completes the initialization of your `SnowPlowTracker`.

[Back to top](#top)

<a name="initUrl" />
#### 2.2.2 Setting a Cloudfront endpoint using `initCf()`

If you are running a different collector (not the Cloudfront collector) then add to your `setup()` function::

```c++
snowplow.initUrl("{{COLLECTOR-URL}}");
```

So if your collector endpoint is at 'my-company.c.snplow.com' then you would include:

```c++
snowplow.initUrl("my-company.c.snplow.com");
```

This completes the initialization of your `SnowPlowTracker`.

[Back to top](#top)

<a name="user-id" />
### 2.3 Setting the user ID

The Arduino Tracker automatically passes to the collector the `mac_address` supplied on initialization.

However you may want to identify a specific Arduino board by a more business-friendly name. To do this, you use the `setUserId` method.

<a name="setUserId" />
#### 2.3.1 Setting the user ID using `setUserId`

To set a business-friendly user ID for this Arduino, use the `setUserId()` method i.e.:

```c++
snowplow.setUserId("boardroom-arduino");
```

[Back to top](#top)

REST OF GUIDE TO WRITE

[arduino]: http://arduino.cc/