<a name="top" />

[**HOME**](Home) > [**SNOWPLOW TECHNICAL DOCUMENTATION**](Snowplow technical documentation) > [**Trackers**](trackers) > [**Javascript Tracker**](Javascript-Tracker) > General parameters

<a name="general" />
## 2. General parameters

  - 2.1 [Setting the endpoint](#endpoint)  
    - 2.1.1 [`setCollectorCf`](#setCollectorCf)  
    - 2.1.2 [`setCollectorUrl`](#setCollectorUrl)
  - 2.2 [Setting the application ID](#app-id)
    - 2.2.1 [`setAppId`](#setAppId)  
  - 2.3 [Setting the cookie domain](#cookiedomain)
    - 2.3.1 [`setCookieDomain`](#setCookieDomain) 
  - 2.4 [Setting the user ID](#user-id)  
    - 2.4.1 [`setUserId`](#setUserId)
  - 2.5 [Setting the URL as a custom value](#customurl)
    - 2.5.1 [`setCustomUrl`](#setcustomurl)

There are three "global parameters" that can be set for the Javascript tracker:

1. The [collector endpoint](#endpoint)
2. The [application ID](#app-id)
3. The [cookie domain](#cookiedomain)

Of them, the collector endpoint is **essential** - Snowplow will not function if this is not set. The other two global parameters (application ID and cookie domain) are optional. We will discuss in which cases these *should* be set below.

When set, these are global parameters should be set as part of the Snowplow pageview tracking tags, before the actual `trackPageView` method is called e.g. 

```javascript
<!-- Snowplow starts plowing -->
<script type="text/javascript">
var _snaq = _snaq || [];

_snaq.push(['setCollectorCf', '{{MY-CLOUDFRONT-DOMAIN}}']);
_snaq.push(['setAppId', '{{MY-SITE-ID}}']);
_snaq.push(['setCookieDomain', '{{MY-COOKIE-DOMAIN}}'])
_snaq.push(['trackPageView']);

(function() {
var sp = document.createElement('script'); sp.type = 'text/javascript'; sp.async = true; sp.defer = true;
sp.src = ('https:' == document.location.protocol ? 'https' : 'http') + '://d1fc8wv8zag5ca.cloudfront.net/0.12.0/sp.js';
var s = document.getElementsByTagName('script')[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(sp, s);
})();
 </script>
<!-- Snowplow stops plowing -->
```

<a name="endpoint" />
### 2.1 Setting the endpoint

Endpoint refers to the location of your collector: you need to point your Javascript tracker to your collector endpoint, to ensure that data generated by the tracker is logged by the collector.

**It is essential that the tracker end point is set** for data generated by the tracker to pass successfully to the Snowplow collector.

If you are using a Cloudfront collector you can use [setCollectorCf](#setCollectorCf) to set the endpoint. If you are using any other collector (e.g. the Clojure collector, or SnowCannon), then you should use [setCollectorUrl](#setCollectorUrl).

<a name="setCollectorCf" />
#### 2.1.1 Setting a Cloudfront endpoint using `setCollectorCf`

You can set the collector endpoint for the Cloudfront collector using:

```javascript
_snaq.push(['setCollectorCf', '{{CLOUDFRONT-SUBDOMAIN}}']);
```

So if your domain is `d3rkrsqld9gmqf`, you would include:

```javascript
_snaq.push(['setCollectorCf', 'd3rkrsqld9gmqf']);
```

in your Snowplow tag.


[Back to top](#top)
[Back to Javascript technical documentation contents][contents]

<a name="setCollectorUrl" />
#### 2.1.2 Setting a collector endpoint (e.g. for the Clojure collector) using `setCollector URL`

If you are running a different collector (not the Cloudfront collector) then you set the collector endpoint using:

```javascript
_snaq.push(['setCollectorUrl', '{{COLLECTOR-URL}}'])
```

E.g. if your collector endpoint is at 'my-company.c.snplow.com' then you would include:

```javascript
_snaq.push(['setCollectorUrl', 'my-company.c.snplow.com'])
```

in your Snowplow tags.

[Back to top](#top)
[Back to Javascript technical documentation contents][contents]

<a name="app-id" />
### 2.2 Setting the application ID

You can set different application IDs on different parts of your site. You can then distinguish events that occur on different applications by grouping results based on `application_id`.

<a name="setAppId" />
#### 2.2.1 Setting the application ID using `setAppId`

To set the application ID, use the `setAppId` method i.e.:

```javascript
_snaq.push(['setAppId', 'my_application_id_here']);
```

[Back to top](#top)
[Back to Javascript technical documentation contents][contents]

<a name="cookiedomain" />
### 2.3 Setting the cookie domain

If your website spans multiple subdomains e.g.

* www.mysite.com
* blog.mysite.com
* application.mysite.com

You will want to track user behaviour across all those subdomains, rather than within each individually. As a result, it is important that the domain for your first party cookies is set to '.mysite.com' rather than 'www.mysite.com'. By doing so, any values that are stored on the cookie on one of subdomain will be accessible on all the others.

<a name="setCookieDomain" />
#### 2.3.1 Setting the cookie domain using `setCookieDomain`

Snowplow will, as standard, set the cookie domain to the current domain. So if your visitor is on 'www.mysite.com', that will be the default domain the cookie is assigned to.

To assign the cookie to '.mysite.com' instead, execute:

```javascript
_snaq.push(['setCookieDomain', '.mysite.com']);
```

[Back to top](#top)
[Back to Javascript technical documentation contents][contents]

<a name="user-id" />
### 2.4 Setting the user ID

The Javascript tracker automatically sets a `domain_userid` based on a first party cookie.

There are many situations, however, when you will want to identify a specific user using an ID generated by one of your business systems. To do this, you use the `setUserId` method.

<a name="setUserId" />
#### 2.4.1 Setting the user ID using `setUserId`

To set the user ID, use the `setUserId` method i.e.:

```javascript
_snaq.push(['setUserId', 'joe.blogs@email.com']);
```

Typically, companies employ this method at points in the customer journey when the user identifies him / herself e.g. if he / she logs in.

Note: this will only set the user ID on further events fired while the user is on this page; if you want events on another page to record this user ID too, you must call `setUserId` on the other page as well.

[Back to top](#top)
[Back to Javascript technical documentation contents][contents]

<a name="customurl" />
### 2.5 Setting a custom URL

The Snowplow Javascript tracker automatically tracks the page URL on any event tracked.

However, in certain situations, you may want to override the actual URL with a custom value. (For example, this might be desirable if your CMS spits out particularly ugly URLs that are hard to unpick at analysis time.) In that case, you can override the default value using the `setCustoUrl` function.

#### 2.5.1 Setting a custom URL using `setCustomUrl` 

To set a custom URL, use the `setCustomUrl` method i.e.:

```javascript
_snaq.push(['setCustomUrl', 'http://mysite.com/checkout-page']);
```

[contents]: Javascript-Tracker